[Skip to content](https://chatgpt.com/#main)

ChatGPT

Log in

Sign up

##### You said:

mkdir FakeMail cd FakeMail dotnet new sln -n FakeMail dotnet new console -n
FakeMail.Server # SMTP receiver dotnet new blazorserver -n FakeMail.Web # Web
UI dotnet new classlib -n FakeMail.Database # Shared EF Models dotnet sln add
FakeMail.Server/FakeMail.Server.csproj dotnet sln add
FakeMail.Web/FakeMail.Web.csproj dotnet sln add
FakeMail.Database/FakeMail.Database.csproj dotnet add FakeMail.Server
reference FakeMail.Database dotnet add FakeMail.Web reference
FakeMail.Database

###### ChatGPT said:

It looks like you're setting up a project structure for a fake mail system
with three main components: a console-based SMTP receiver (`FakeMail.Server`),
a Blazor-based web UI (`FakeMail.Web`), and a shared database model library
(`FakeMail.Database`).

This approach makes sense for a modular application with clear separation of
concerns, and the structure you've laid out will allow for easy scaling and
maintenance. Here's a brief breakdown of what each command does:

  1.  **`mkdir FakeMail`** : Creates a directory called `FakeMail` for the project.

  2.  **`cd FakeMail`** : Navigates into the `FakeMail` directory.

  3.  **`dotnet new sln -n FakeMail`** : Creates a new solution file (`FakeMail.sln`), which will include all the projects you're about to create.

  4.  **`dotnet new console -n FakeMail.Server`** : Creates a new console application for the SMTP server, which will receive and process emails.

  5.  **`dotnet new blazorserver -n FakeMail.Web`** : Creates a new Blazor Server app, which will be your web UI.

  6.  **`dotnet new classlib -n FakeMail.Database`** : Creates a new class library for your shared EF models, which both the server and web app will reference.

  7.  **Adding the projects to the solution** : The `dotnet sln add` commands add the individual project files (`csproj`) to the solution file.

  8.  **Adding project references** : `dotnet add` commands add references between projects, ensuring that `FakeMail.Server` and `FakeMail.Web` can use the shared models in `FakeMail.Database`.

Next steps:

  *  **Define your EF models** in `FakeMail.Database`. These models will likely represent entities like emails, users, and possibly logs.

  *  **Implement the SMTP server** (`FakeMail.Server`). This will be responsible for handling incoming emails and processing them.

  *  **Design the web UI** (`FakeMail.Web`). This could allow users to view incoming emails, manage accounts, etc.

Do you need help with any specific part of this process? Or is there anything
you're unsure about with this setup?

##### You said:

dotnet new blazorserver -n FakeMail.Web # Web UI No templates or subcommands
found matching: 'blazorserver'.

###### ChatGPT said:

It seems like you're encountering an issue where the `blazorserver` template
is not being found when you try to create the Blazor Web UI project. This
might be because the Blazor templates are not installed, or there might be an
issue with your .NET SDK installation.

Here are a few things to try:

### 1. **Check .NET SDK Version**

First, make sure you're using a version of .NET that includes Blazor Server
templates. You can check your installed SDK versions with:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet --list-sdks

Blazor Server is available in .NET Core 3.0+ and .NET 5+.

If you see an outdated version or no version that supports Blazor, you might
need to update your .NET SDK.

### 2. **Install Blazor Templates (if missing)**

If for some reason the Blazor templates are missing from your SDK, you can
manually install them using:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet new --install Microsoft.AspNetCore.Blazor.Templates::3.2.0

This will install the Blazor templates required to create Blazor projects.

### 3. **Use `blazor` Template Instead**

The command you are using might be outdated, or you may need to use a
different syntax. In recent versions of .NET, the command to create a Blazor
Server app might be simplified. Try using:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet new blazor -n FakeMail.Web

This should work in most modern versions of .NET SDK.

### 4. **Ensure You Have the Correct SDK**

If none of the above solutions work, you might need to ensure that you have
the correct version of the SDK installed. Blazor was initially introduced in
.NET Core 3.0 and improved in .NET 5 and beyond.

### 5. **Check for Available Templates**

To see a list of all available templates in your .NET SDK installation, use:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet new --list

This will give you a list of all templates you can use. If `blazorserver`
doesn't appear there, it's likely that you either need to update the SDK or
install the necessary templates.

Let me know if any of these solutions work or if you need more help
troubleshooting!

##### You said:

/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/Program.cs(37,114): error
CS0246: The type or namespace name 'ReadOnlySequence<>' could not be found
(are you missing a using directive or an assembly reference?)
[/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/FakeMail.Server.csproj]
/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/Program.cs(31,7): error CS0534:
'MailStore' does not implement inherited abstract member
'MessageStore.SaveAsync(ISessionContext, IMessageTransaction,
ReadOnlySequence<byte>, CancellationToken)'
[/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/FakeMail.Server.csproj] 0
Warning(s) 2 Error(s)

###### ChatGPT said:

The errors you're encountering suggest a couple of issues:

### 1. **Missing `ReadOnlySequence<>`**

The error message `The type or namespace name 'ReadOnlySequence<>' could not
be found` indicates that you're trying to use `ReadOnlySequence<byte>`, but
the required namespaces or assemblies are not referenced.

`ReadOnlySequence<>` is part of the `System.Memory` namespace and is available
in `System.Memory.dll`, which was introduced in .NET Core 2.1+ and is commonly
used for performance-sensitive operations involving memory management.

To fix this issue, you need to ensure that you're importing the necessary
namespaces.

### 2. **Abstract Method Implementation**

The error `CS0534: 'MailStore' does not implement inherited abstract member
'MessageStore.SaveAsync(ISessionContext, IMessageTransaction,
ReadOnlySequence<byte>, CancellationToken)'` indicates that the class
`MailStore` (which presumably inherits from `MessageStore`) does not implement
the required abstract method `SaveAsync`.

* * *

### Fixing the Issues

#### 1. **Fix the `ReadOnlySequence<>` Issue**

Make sure you've included the correct namespace for `ReadOnlySequence<byte>`.
Add the following `using` directive at the top of your `Program.cs` or
relevant class file:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using System.Buffers;

This should resolve the issue where the `ReadOnlySequence<byte>` type is not
found.

#### 2. **Implement the Abstract Method**

The second error about `MailStore` not implementing `SaveAsync` means that
your class `MailStore` needs to provide an implementation for the `SaveAsync`
method defined in `MessageStore`.

You should define a method like this in `MailStore` (with your own logic for
saving the data):

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    public class MailStore : MessageStore
    {
        public override async Task SaveAsync(ISessionContext sessionContext, IMessageTransaction transaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte> data, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
        {
            // Implement the logic for saving the email data
            // For example, saving it to a database or file system

            // Example implementation (adjust based on your needs):
            // await _database.SaveEmailAsync(sessionContext, transaction, data, cancellationToken);

            // Make sure to handle cancellationToken for long-running operations
        }
    }

Make sure you have the correct parameters and logic inside the `SaveAsync`
method based on what you're trying to do with the data (e.g., saving emails).

* * *

### Summary

  1. Add the `using System.Buffers;` directive to resolve the missing `ReadOnlySequence<>` issue.

  2. Implement the `SaveAsync` method in your `MailStore` class to handle the abstract method from `MessageStore`.

Let me know if these suggestions help or if you need more assistance with the
implementation!

##### You said:

using SmtpServer; using SmtpServer.ComponentModel; using SmtpServer.Storage;
using SmtpServer.Protocol; using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore; using MimeKit;
using FakeMail.Database; using FakeMail.Database.Models; using System.Buffers;
var dbOptions = new DbContextOptionsBuilder<FakeMailDbContext>()
.UseSqlite("Data Source=fakemail.db") .Options; using (var db = new
FakeMailDbContext(dbOptions)) { db.Database.EnsureCreated(); } var services =
new ServiceProvider(); services.Add(new MailStore(dbOptions)); var options =
new SmtpServerOptionsBuilder() .ServerName("localhost") .Port(2525) .Build();
var server = new SmtpServer.SmtpServer(options, services);
Console.WriteLine("SMTP server listening on port 2525..."); await
server.StartAsync(CancellationToken.None); class MailStore : MessageStore {
private readonly DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> _options; public
MailStore(DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> options) => _options = options;
public override async Task<SmtpResponse> SaveAsync(ISessionContext context,
IMessageTransaction transaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte> buffer,
CancellationToken cancellationToken) { var message =
MimeMessage.Load(buffer.AsStream()); using var db = new
FakeMailDbContext(_options); var email = new EmailMessage { Sender =
transaction.From.AsAddress().ToString(), Recipient = string.Join(", ",
transaction.To.Select(t => t.AsAddress().ToString())), Subject =
message.Subject ?? "(no subject)", Body = message.TextBody ?? message.HtmlBody
?? "", ReceivedAt = DateTime.UtcNow }; db.Emails.Add(email); await
db.SaveChangesAsync(); Console.WriteLine($"Mail received for
{email.Recipient}: {email.Subject}"); return SmtpResponse.Ok; } } please
convert to normal old C# style.

###### ChatGPT said:

Sure! To convert the provided code into a more "traditional" or "old-style" C#
approach (before things like dependency injection, async/await, and certain
modern patterns were widely used), we need to:

  1. Replace `async` methods with synchronous alternatives where applicable.

  2. Remove dependency injection and use more explicit object instantiation.

  3. Use explicit service setup instead of the `ServiceProvider`.

Here’s how your code could look:

### Converted Code (Old C# Style)

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer;
    using SmtpServer.ComponentModel;
    using SmtpServer.Storage;
    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using MimeKit;
    using FakeMail.Database;
    using FakeMail.Database.Models;
    using System;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Collections.Generic;

    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            // Initialize the DbContext options
            var dbOptions = new DbContextOptionsBuilder<FakeMailDbContext>()
                .UseSqlite("Data Source=fakemail.db")
                .Options;

            // Ensure database is created
            using (var db = new FakeMailDbContext(dbOptions))
            {
                db.Database.EnsureCreated();
            }

            // Initialize MailStore (synchronously)
            var mailStore = new MailStore(dbOptions);

            // Create SMTP server options (synchronously)
            var options = new SmtpServerOptionsBuilder()
                .ServerName("localhost")
                .Port(2525)
                .Build();

            // Initialize the SMTP server
            var server = new SmtpServer.SmtpServer(options, mailStore);

            // Start the SMTP server (Synchronously wait for it to start)
            Console.WriteLine("SMTP server listening on port 2525...");
            server.Start();

            // Keep the server running (infinite loop)
            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }

    class MailStore : MessageStore
    {
        private readonly DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> _options;

        public MailStore(DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> options)
        {
            _options = options;
        }

        public override SmtpResponse Save(ISessionContext context, IMessageTransaction transaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte> buffer)
        {
            // Load the email message
            var message = MimeMessage.Load(buffer.AsStream());

            // Synchronously save to the database
            using (var db = new FakeMailDbContext(_options))
            {
                var email = new EmailMessage
                {
                    Sender = transaction.From.AsAddress().ToString(),
                    Recipient = string.Join(", ", transaction.To.Select(t => t.AsAddress().ToString())),
                    Subject = message.Subject ?? "(no subject)",
                    Body = message.TextBody ?? message.HtmlBody ?? "",
                    ReceivedAt = DateTime.UtcNow
                };

                db.Emails.Add(email);
                db.SaveChanges(); // Synchronously save changes

                Console.WriteLine($"Mail received for {email.Recipient}: {email.Subject}");
            }

            return SmtpResponse.Ok;
        }
    }

### Key Changes:

  1.  **Removed `async` and `await`**: In older C#, `async` methods weren't commonly used. I replaced `SaveAsync` with a synchronous version `Save`. It now uses `SaveChanges()` instead of `SaveChangesAsync()`.

  2.  **ServiceProvider Removed** : The dependency injection model (`services.Add()`) has been removed. Instead, the `MailStore` is directly instantiated using the constructor.

  3.  **Synchronous Server Start** : In the old approach, we'd often call the server synchronously without worrying about `Task` and `CancellationToken`. The server is now started using `server.Start()` instead of `await server.StartAsync()`.

  4.  **Database Operations** : Instead of `await db.SaveChangesAsync()`, it uses `db.SaveChanges()`, which is the synchronous version of saving changes to the database.

  5.  **Console Read Line** : Instead of relying on async methods to manage the application’s lifecycle, the program will now just wait indefinitely with `Console.ReadLine()`.

### Potential Caveats

  1.  **Threading & Blocking**: In modern C#, async methods are used to avoid blocking the main thread. By removing async/await, this code will block the main thread while saving messages to the database, which could be less efficient in a production system. If you need to handle a large volume of email traffic, a more modern approach with async/await is preferable.

  2.  **Error Handling** : Depending on your needs, you might want to add error handling (try-catch blocks) around database operations to handle any potential exceptions.

Let me know if you need further modifications or explanations!

##### You said:

class MailStore : MessageStore can be separary ?

###### ChatGPT said:

Yes, the `MailStore` class can be separated into its own file, which is a good
practice to keep your code organized and maintainable, especially as your
project grows.

Here’s how you can separate the `MailStore` class from the main program:

### 1. **Create a Separate File for `MailStore`**

Create a new C# file called `MailStore.cs` in your project. The structure
would look like this:

####  **MailStore.cs** (Separate File)

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer.Storage;
    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using MimeKit;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using FakeMail.Database;
    using FakeMail.Database.Models;
    using System;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Buffers;

    public class MailStore : MessageStore
    {
        private readonly DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> _options;

        public MailStore(DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> options)
        {
            _options = options;
        }

        public override SmtpResponse Save(ISessionContext context, IMessageTransaction transaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte> buffer)
        {
            // Load the email message
            var message = MimeMessage.Load(buffer.AsStream());

            // Synchronously save to the database
            using (var db = new FakeMailDbContext(_options))
            {
                var email = new EmailMessage
                {
                    Sender = transaction.From.AsAddress().ToString(),
                    Recipient = string.Join(", ", transaction.To.Select(t => t.AsAddress().ToString())),
                    Subject = message.Subject ?? "(no subject)",
                    Body = message.TextBody ?? message.HtmlBody ?? "",
                    ReceivedAt = DateTime.UtcNow
                };

                db.Emails.Add(email);
                db.SaveChanges(); // Synchronously save changes

                Console.WriteLine($"Mail received for {email.Recipient}: {email.Subject}");
            }

            return SmtpResponse.Ok;
        }
    }

### 2. **Main Program File**

Now, in your main program file (`Program.cs`), you just need to reference this
new class.

####  **Program.cs**

     csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer;
    using SmtpServer.ComponentModel;
    using SmtpServer.Storage;
    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using FakeMail.Database;
    using System;

    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            // Initialize the DbContext options
            var dbOptions = new DbContextOptionsBuilder<FakeMailDbContext>()
                .UseSqlite("Data Source=fakemail.db")
                .Options;

            // Ensure database is created
            using (var db = new FakeMailDbContext(dbOptions))
            {
                db.Database.EnsureCreated();
            }

            // Initialize MailStore (synchronously)
            var mailStore = new MailStore(dbOptions);

            // Create SMTP server options (synchronously)
            var options = new SmtpServerOptionsBuilder()
                .ServerName("localhost")
                .Port(2525)
                .Build();

            // Initialize the SMTP server
            var server = new SmtpServer.SmtpServer(options, mailStore);

            // Start the SMTP server (Synchronously wait for it to start)
            Console.WriteLine("SMTP server listening on port 2525...");
            server.Start();

            // Keep the server running (infinite loop)
            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }

### 3. **Folder Structure**

Now that the `MailStore` class is in its own file, your project structure
might look like this:

    lua

    CopyEdit

    /FakeMail
      |-- Program.cs
      |-- MailStore.cs
      |-- /Database
          |-- FakeMailDbContext.cs
          |-- Models/
              |-- EmailMessage.cs

### 4. **Namespace Adjustments**

If your project uses namespaces (which it should for larger projects), you
should add appropriate `namespace` declarations in both `MailStore.cs` and
`Program.cs`. For example:

In **MailStore.cs** :

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    namespace FakeMail.Server
    {
        public class MailStore : MessageStore
        {
            // Implementation as before
        }
    }

And in **Program.cs** :

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using FakeMail.Server; // Add this using statement at the top

    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            // Program implementation
        }
    }

### Why Separate Classes?

  1.  **Code Organization** : Splitting different responsibilities into separate files makes the code easier to maintain and understand. For example, the `Program.cs` file is typically for application entry points, while `MailStore` handles the storage and email processing.

  2.  **Scalability** : If you decide to add more functionality to `MailStore` (like handling attachments, additional email metadata, etc.), it’s easier to manage that if it’s in a separate file.

  3.  **Reusability** : By separating it into its own class, `MailStore` could potentially be used in other parts of your application or in other projects.

Let me know if you need more clarification or help!

##### You said:

/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/MailStore.cs(20,39): error
CS0246: The type or namespace name 'ISessionContext' could not be found (are
you missing a using directive or an assembly reference?)
[/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/FakeMail.Server.csproj]
/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/MailStore.cs(20,64): error
CS0246: The type or namespace name 'IMessageTransaction' could not be found
(are you missing a using directive or an assembly reference?)
[/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/FakeMail.Server.csproj]
/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/MailStore.cs(11,14): error
CS0534: 'MailStore' does not implement inherited abstract member
'MessageStore.SaveAsync(ISessionContext, IMessageTransaction,
ReadOnlySequence<byte>, CancellationToken)'
[/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/FakeMail.Server.csproj] 0
Warning(s) 3 Error(s)

###### ChatGPT said:

The errors you're encountering indicate that the types `ISessionContext` and
`IMessageTransaction` are not recognized, and it looks like your `MailStore`
class does not implement the `SaveAsync` method properly, even though
`MessageStore` expects it.

### Let's go step by step to resolve these issues:

### 1. **Missing `ISessionContext` and `IMessageTransaction` Types**

The errors:

    pgsql

    CopyEdit

    The type or namespace name 'ISessionContext' could not be found
    The type or namespace name 'IMessageTransaction' could not be found

These types are part of the **SmtpServer** library, which you are using in
your project. If these types are not being recognized, it is likely because
the relevant namespaces are not included.

Make sure you have the correct `using` directives at the top of your
`MailStore.cs` file. Specifically, you'll need to import namespaces from the
`SmtpServer` library that provide the `ISessionContext` and
`IMessageTransaction` types.

Add these namespaces:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using SmtpServer.ComponentModel;

These namespaces should contain `ISessionContext`, `IMessageTransaction`, and
related types.

### 2. **Implementing the `SaveAsync` Method**

The second error:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    'MailStore' does not implement inherited abstract member 'MessageStore.SaveAsync(ISessionContext, IMessageTransaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte>, CancellationToken)'

This means that `MailStore` is missing an implementation for the `SaveAsync`
method, which is expected to be implemented from the base class
`MessageStore`.

Since you're trying to use a **synchronous** method (you replaced `SaveAsync`
with `Save` earlier), the correct fix is to **implement the `SaveAsync`
method** instead of `Save`, but we'll make it synchronous to avoid breaking
the existing structure.

Here’s how to fix this:

####  **Corrected `MailStore` Class**

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using SmtpServer.ComponentModel;
    using MimeKit;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using FakeMail.Database;
    using FakeMail.Database.Models;
    using System;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Buffers;
    using System.Threading;

    public class MailStore : MessageStore
    {
        private readonly DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> _options;

        public MailStore(DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> options)
        {
            _options = options;
        }

        // Implementing SaveAsync as required by MessageStore, but keeping it synchronous
        public override async Task<SmtpResponse> SaveAsync(ISessionContext context, IMessageTransaction transaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte> buffer, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
        {
            var message = MimeMessage.Load(buffer.AsStream());

            using (var db = new FakeMailDbContext(_options))
            {
                var email = new EmailMessage
                {
                    Sender = transaction.From.AsAddress().ToString(),
                    Recipient = string.Join(", ", transaction.To.Select(t => t.AsAddress().ToString())),
                    Subject = message.Subject ?? "(no subject)",
                    Body = message.TextBody ?? message.HtmlBody ?? "",
                    ReceivedAt = DateTime.UtcNow
                };

                db.Emails.Add(email);
                await db.SaveChangesAsync(); // Async save to the database

                Console.WriteLine($"Mail received for {email.Recipient}: {email.Subject}");
            }

            return SmtpResponse.Ok;
        }
    }

### Key Changes:

  1.  **Added missing `using` directives** for the `SmtpServer.Protocol` and `SmtpServer.ComponentModel` namespaces to ensure `ISessionContext` and `IMessageTransaction` are recognized.

  2.  **Implemented `SaveAsync` method**: The `MessageStore` class requires `SaveAsync`. I've kept the method synchronous (using async internally only for the database operations). However, I've kept it as `async Task<SmtpResponse>` because that's what `MessageStore.SaveAsync` expects.

### 3. **Ensure Proper Package References**

To avoid any other issues, ensure that you have the necessary NuGet packages
installed for your project:

  *  **SmtpServer** : The SMTP server library you're using.

  *  **Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore** : For working with the SQLite database.

  *  **MimeKit** : For handling MIME email messages.

In your `.csproj` file, you should have something like this:

    xml

    CopyEdit

    <PackageReference Include="SmtpServer" Version="2.0.0" />
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite" Version="5.0.0" />
    <PackageReference Include="MimeKit" Version="2.15.0" />

You can add these by running:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet add package SmtpServer
    dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Sqlite
    dotnet add package MimeKit

### 4. **Rebuild the Project**

After making these changes, rebuild the project to ensure everything is
properly referenced.

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet build

This should resolve the issues you are facing.

* * *

### Final Note:

If you encounter any other issues related to the `SmtpServer` library or want
to go back to using fully asynchronous methods, you can adjust your design to
make better use of async/await patterns for scalability. However, this
synchronous version should work well if your requirements are simpler.

Let me know if you need further help!

##### You said:

What is SmtpServer? NuGet SmtpServer is a simple, but highly functional SMTP
server implementation. Written entirely in C# it takes full advantage of the
.NET TPL to achieve maximum performance. SmtpServer is available via NuGet
Whats New? See here for whats new in Version 8. What does it support?
SmtpServer currently supports the following ESMTP extensions: STARTTLS SIZE
PIPELINING 8BITMIME AUTH PLAIN LOGIN How can it be used? At its most basic, it
only takes a few lines of code for the server to be listening to incoming
requests. var options = new SmtpServerOptionsBuilder()
.ServerName("localhost") .Port(25, 587) .Build(); var smtpServer = new
SmtpServer.SmtpServer(options, ServiceProvider.Default); await
smtpServer.StartAsync(CancellationToken.None); What hooks are provided? There
are three hooks that can be implemented; IMessageStore, IMailboxFilter, and
IUserAuthenticator. var options = new SmtpServerOptionsBuilder()
.ServerName("localhost") .Endpoint(builder => builder .Port(9025, true)
.AllowUnsecureAuthentication(false) .Certificate(CreateCertificate()))
.Build(); var serviceProvider = new ServiceProvider(); serviceProvider.Add(new
SampleMessageStore()); serviceProvider.Add(new SampleMailboxFilter());
serviceProvider.Add(new SampleUserAuthenticator()); var smtpServer = new
SmtpServer.SmtpServer(options, serviceProvider); await
smtpServer.StartAsync(CancellationToken.None); // to create an X509Certificate
for testing you need to run MAKECERT.EXE and then PVK2PFX.EXE //
http://www.digitallycreated.net/Blog/38/using-makecert-to-create-certificates-
for-development static X509Certificate2 CreateCertificate() { var certificate
= File.ReadAllBytes(@"Certificate.pfx"); return new
X509Certificate2(certificate, "P@ssw0rd"); } public class SampleMessageStore :
MessageStore { public override async Task<SmtpResponse>
SaveAsync(ISessionContext context, IMessageTransaction transaction,
ReadOnlySequence<byte> buffer, CancellationToken cancellationToken) { await
using var stream = new MemoryStream(); var position = buffer.GetPosition(0);
while (buffer.TryGet(ref position, out var memory)) { await
stream.WriteAsync(memory, cancellationToken); } stream.Position = 0; var
message = await MimeKit.MimeMessage.LoadAsync(stream, cancellationToken);
Console.WriteLine(message.TextBody); return SmtpResponse.Ok; } } public class
SampleMailboxFilter : IMailboxFilter, IMailboxFilterFactory { public
Task<MailboxFilterResult> CanAcceptFromAsync(ISessionContext context, IMailbox
@from, int size, CancellationToken cancellationToken) { if
(String.Equals(@from.Host, "test.com")) { return
Task.FromResult(MailboxFilterResult.Yes); } return
Task.FromResult(MailboxFilterResult.NoPermanently); } public
Task<MailboxFilterResult> CanDeliverToAsync(ISessionContext context, IMailbox
to, IMailbox @from, CancellationToken token) { return
Task.FromResult(MailboxFilterResult.Yes); } public IMailboxFilter
CreateInstance(ISessionContext context) { return new SampleMailboxFilter(); }
} public class SampleUserAuthenticator : IUserAuthenticator,
IUserAuthenticatorFactory { public Task<bool>
AuthenticateAsync(ISessionContext context, string user, string password,
CancellationToken token) { Console.WriteLine("User={0} Password={1}", user,
password); return Task.FromResult(user.Length > 4); } public
IUserAuthenticator CreateInstance(ISessionContext context) { return new
SampleUserAuthenticator(); } }

###### ChatGPT said:

### Overview of `SmtpServer`

`SmtpServer` is a highly functional and efficient SMTP server implementation,
written entirely in C# for the .NET framework. It leverages the **Task
Parallel Library (TPL)** to achieve high performance, making it suitable for
handling SMTP traffic in production environments, even under heavy load.

#### Key Features:

  1.  **Asynchronous Handling** : It makes use of asynchronous programming techniques, allowing it to scale well.

  2.  **ESMTP Extensions** : Supports several popular ESMTP extensions, which enhance the basic SMTP protocol:

    * `STARTTLS`: For encrypted communication.

    * `SIZE`: Allows the client to specify the size of the email.

    * `PIPELINING`: Enables sending multiple commands at once, improving performance.

    * `8BITMIME`: Allows 8-bit character sets in email bodies.

    * `AUTH PLAIN LOGIN`: Support for plain-text authentication.

  3.  **Hooks for Customization** :

    *  **IMessageStore** : Used to handle email message storage.

    *  **IMailboxFilter** : Provides filtering of incoming mailboxes (can be used for spam filtering, etc.).

    *  **IUserAuthenticator** : Handles user authentication.

### Basic Usage

Here’s a simple example of how to get the `SmtpServer` running:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    var options = new SmtpServerOptionsBuilder()
        .ServerName("localhost")
        .Port(25, 587)  // Set the ports you want to listen on
        .Build();

    var smtpServer = new SmtpServer.SmtpServer(options, ServiceProvider.Default);
    await smtpServer.StartAsync(CancellationToken.None);

In this code:

  * `ServerName("localhost")`: Sets the server name.

  * `Port(25, 587)`: Configures the SMTP server to listen on port 25 (default for SMTP) and port 587 (default for submission).

  * `StartAsync()`: Starts the server asynchronously.

### Customizing `SmtpServer`

The main customization hooks in `SmtpServer` allow you to control how messages
are stored, how mailboxes are filtered, and how users authenticate. Here’s an
example for each:

#### 1. **Message Store (`IMessageStore`)**

This hook allows you to specify how incoming email messages should be handled,
typically for saving them to a database or file system.

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    public class SampleMessageStore : MessageStore
    {
        public override async Task<SmtpResponse> SaveAsync(ISessionContext context, IMessageTransaction transaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte> buffer, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
        {
            await using var stream = new MemoryStream();

            var position = buffer.GetPosition(0);
            while (buffer.TryGet(ref position, out var memory))
            {
                await stream.WriteAsync(memory, cancellationToken);
            }

            stream.Position = 0;

            var message = await MimeKit.MimeMessage.LoadAsync(stream, cancellationToken);
            Console.WriteLine(message.TextBody); // Print the body of the email

            return SmtpResponse.Ok;
        }
    }

  * **What Happens Here?**

    * The `SaveAsync` method is called when an email is received.

    * The email message is read from the incoming byte stream (`buffer`) and loaded into a `MimeMessage` (using **MimeKit** , a popular MIME handling library).

    * You can then process the message (in this case, just printing the text body) and store it.

#### 2. **Mailbox Filter (`IMailboxFilter`)**

You can filter messages based on the sender or recipient addresses. This is
useful for spam filtering or preventing certain addresses from being used.

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    public class SampleMailboxFilter : IMailboxFilter, IMailboxFilterFactory
    {
        public Task<MailboxFilterResult> CanAcceptFromAsync(ISessionContext context, IMailbox @from, int size, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
        {
            if (String.Equals(@from.Host, "test.com"))
            {
                return Task.FromResult(MailboxFilterResult.Yes);
            }

            return Task.FromResult(MailboxFilterResult.NoPermanently);
        }

        public Task<MailboxFilterResult> CanDeliverToAsync(ISessionContext context, IMailbox to, IMailbox @from, CancellationToken token)
        {
            return Task.FromResult(MailboxFilterResult.Yes);
        }

        public IMailboxFilter CreateInstance(ISessionContext context)
        {
            return new SampleMailboxFilter();
        }
    }

  * **What Happens Here?**

    * The `CanAcceptFromAsync` method determines if the server should accept emails from a specific sender. In this case, only emails from `test.com` are accepted.

    * The `CanDeliverToAsync` method checks if an email can be delivered to a specific recipient.

#### 3. **User Authentication (`IUserAuthenticator`)**

This hook allows you to authenticate users trying to send emails through the
SMTP server.

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    public class SampleUserAuthenticator : IUserAuthenticator, IUserAuthenticatorFactory
    {
        public Task<bool> AuthenticateAsync(ISessionContext context, string user, string password, CancellationToken token)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("User={0} Password={1}", user, password);

            // In this example, user authentication succeeds if the username is longer than 4 characters
            return Task.FromResult(user.Length > 4);
        }

        public IUserAuthenticator CreateInstance(ISessionContext context)
        {
            return new SampleUserAuthenticator();
        }
    }

  * **What Happens Here?**

    * The `AuthenticateAsync` method is called to authenticate a user based on their credentials.

    * In this example, it simply checks that the username is longer than 4 characters.

### Starting the SMTP Server with Custom Hooks

To start the SMTP server with custom hooks, you'll need to set up the options
and add your implementations of `IMessageStore`, `IMailboxFilter`, and
`IUserAuthenticator` to the `ServiceProvider`:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    var options = new SmtpServerOptionsBuilder()
        .ServerName("localhost")
        .Port(2525, true)  // Use a different port, as port 25 might be blocked on many systems
        .AllowUnsecureAuthentication(false) // Optionally disable insecure authentication
        .Build();

    var serviceProvider = new ServiceProvider();
    serviceProvider.Add(new SampleMessageStore());    // Add the custom MessageStore
    serviceProvider.Add(new SampleMailboxFilter());  // Add the custom MailboxFilter
    serviceProvider.Add(new SampleUserAuthenticator()); // Add the custom UserAuthenticator

    var smtpServer = new SmtpServer.SmtpServer(options, serviceProvider);
    await smtpServer.StartAsync(CancellationToken.None);

  * **Service Provider** : The service provider is used to manage the various components (like the message store, filters, and authenticators). You add your implementations (`SampleMessageStore`, `SampleMailboxFilter`, and `SampleUserAuthenticator`) to it.

  *  **Starting the Server** : After setting up the options and adding the hooks, you start the server asynchronously with `StartAsync()`.

### Certificate for Secure Connections

If you need to run the server securely (using `STARTTLS`), you'll need an
SSL/TLS certificate. The example shows how to use a certificate:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    static X509Certificate2 CreateCertificate()
    {
        var certificate = File.ReadAllBytes(@"Certificate.pfx");
        return new X509Certificate2(certificate, "P@ssw0rd");
    }

You can generate a certificate using tools like `makecert.exe` or `openssl`.

* * *

### Conclusion

  *  **SmtpServer** provides a simple, customizable, and high-performance SMTP server implementation.

  * It allows you to hook into various parts of the email lifecycle (message storage, filtering, authentication) and tailor the behavior of the server to your needs.

  * You can integrate it easily with your application to handle email receipt, process emails, and authenticate users.

##### You said:

dotnet install smtp?

###### ChatGPT said:

To install the `SmtpServer` library in your .NET project via NuGet, you can
use the following command:

### Install via CLI:

Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to your project directory, then
run the following command:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet add package SmtpServer

This will download and install the latest version of the `SmtpServer` library
for your project.

### Alternatively, if you're using **Visual Studio** :

  1. Right-click on your project in **Solution Explorer**.

  2. Choose **Manage NuGet Packages**.

  3. In the **NuGet Package Manager** , go to the **Browse** tab and search for `SmtpServer`.

  4. Select the `SmtpServer` package and click **Install**.

### Verify Installation

After installation, you should see the `SmtpServer` package listed in your
`.csproj` file:

    xml

    CopyEdit

    <PackageReference Include="SmtpServer" Version="X.Y.Z" />

### Check the installed version:

You can also check which version of the package was installed by running:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet list package

This command will list all the installed NuGet packages and their versions for
your project.

* * *

### Additional Information

Once the package is installed, you'll be able to use `SmtpServer` in your
project by adding the necessary `using` directives:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer;
    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using SmtpServer.Storage;

Let me know if you run into any issues while installing!

##### You said:

/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/MailStore.cs(22,34): error
CS0115: 'MailStore.Save(ISessionContext, IMessageTransaction,
ReadOnlySequence<byte>)': no suitable method found to override
[/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/FakeMail.Server.csproj]
/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/MailStore.cs(13,14): error
CS0534: 'MailStore' does not implement inherited abstract member
'MessageStore.SaveAsync(ISessionContext, IMessageTransaction,
ReadOnlySequence<byte>, CancellationToken)'
[/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/FakeMail.Server.csproj] 2
Warning(s) 2 Error(s)

###### ChatGPT said:

The errors you're encountering suggest that there are issues with how you are
overriding methods in the `MailStore` class, particularly with the `Save` and
`SaveAsync` methods.

### Let's address these errors step by step:

### 1. **`CS0115`: No suitable method found to override**

This error indicates that you're trying to override a method (`Save`) that
doesn't exist in the base class (`MessageStore`).

It seems like the base class is expecting the **`SaveAsync`** method, but
you're trying to override a non-existing `Save` method.

You need to make sure that you're overriding the correct method, which is
**`SaveAsync`** (as per the `MessageStore` base class).

### 2. **`CS0534`: 'MailStore' does not implement inherited abstract member
'MessageStore.SaveAsync'**

This error happens because the base class `MessageStore` expects you to
implement an abstract method `SaveAsync`. However, you haven't implemented it
correctly.

### Solution

We need to ensure that:

  1.  **We correctly override the `SaveAsync` method** from the `MessageStore` base class (not `Save`).

  2.  **We correctly implement it asynchronously** , as required by `MessageStore`.

### Corrected `MailStore` class:

You should have something like this:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer;
    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using MimeKit;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using FakeMail.Database;
    using FakeMail.Database.Models;
    using System.Buffers;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Threading;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    using System.IO;

    public class MailStore : MessageStore
    {
        private readonly DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> _options;

        public MailStore(DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> options)
        {
            _options = options;
        }

        // Correctly overriding the 'SaveAsync' method as required by MessageStore
        public override async Task<SmtpResponse> SaveAsync(ISessionContext context, IMessageTransaction transaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte> buffer, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
        {
            var message = MimeMessage.Load(buffer.AsStream());

            using (var db = new FakeMailDbContext(_options))
            {
                var email = new EmailMessage
                {
                    Sender = transaction.From.AsAddress().ToString(),
                    Recipient = string.Join(", ", transaction.To.Select(t => t.AsAddress().ToString())),
                    Subject = message.Subject ?? "(no subject)",
                    Body = message.TextBody ?? message.HtmlBody ?? "",
                    ReceivedAt = DateTime.UtcNow
                };

                db.Emails.Add(email);
                await db.SaveChangesAsync(cancellationToken);  // Async save to the database

                Console.WriteLine($"Mail received for {email.Recipient}: {email.Subject}");
            }

            return SmtpResponse.Ok;
        }
    }

### Key Changes:

  1.  **Overriding `SaveAsync`**:

    * Ensure you're overriding `SaveAsync` as per the base class `MessageStore`. The method signature for `SaveAsync` should match exactly.

  2.  **Implementing Async Logic** :

    * The method is now asynchronous, using `await db.SaveChangesAsync(cancellationToken)` to save to the database asynchronously.

  3.  **Returning `SmtpResponse.Ok`**:

    * As per the `SmtpServer` library's API, you return a `SmtpResponse.Ok` to indicate that the message was saved successfully.

### Final Notes:

  *  **Ensure `MessageStore`**: The `MessageStore` class (from `SmtpServer.Storage`) must have a `SaveAsync` method that you're overriding.

  *  **Properly Reference Necessary Namespaces** : If you're still encountering issues with missing references or types like `ISessionContext` and `IMessageTransaction`, ensure you have the correct namespaces, such as:

        csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using SmtpServer.ComponentModel;

### Rebuild the Project:

After making these changes, rebuild the project to ensure everything is
correct:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet build

If you continue facing issues, please let me know, and we can troubleshoot
further!

##### You said:

/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/MailStore.cs(13,26): error
CS0246: The type or namespace name 'MessageStore' could not be found (are you
missing a using directive or an assembly reference?)
[/home/airsoft/dotnet/FakeMail/FakeMail.Server/FakeMail.Server.csproj]

###### ChatGPT said:

The error `CS0246: The type or namespace name 'MessageStore' could not be
found` indicates that your project is unable to find the `MessageStore` class,
which is part of the `SmtpServer` library. This could be because:

  1. The `SmtpServer` package is not properly referenced.

  2. You may be missing the correct `using` directives.

  3. The namespace might be incorrect or not recognized.

### Steps to resolve the issue:

### 1. **Ensure that `SmtpServer` package is installed**

First, ensure that you have installed the `SmtpServer` NuGet package properly:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet add package SmtpServer

### 2. **Verify Package Reference in `.csproj`**

Check your `.csproj` file to make sure that the `SmtpServer` package is
referenced correctly:

    xml

    CopyEdit

    <PackageReference Include="SmtpServer" Version="8.x.x" />

Make sure that the version number (`8.x.x`) matches the version you want.

### 3. **Correct the `using` Directives**

Make sure you're using the correct namespaces in your `MailStore.cs` file. You
should have the following `using` directives at the top of your file:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer;
    using SmtpServer.Storage;  // This is where MessageStore is located
    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using System.Buffers;
    using MimeKit;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using FakeMail.Database;
    using FakeMail.Database.Models;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Threading;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;

### 4. **Check the Correct Namespace for `MessageStore`**

`MessageStore` is located in the `SmtpServer.Storage` namespace. Ensure you
have added this namespace properly and that there are no typos.

### 5. **Rebuild the Project**

Once you've ensured that everything is in place, try to rebuild your project:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet build

If the issue persists, try clearing the NuGet cache and restoring the
packages:

    bash

    CopyEdit

    dotnet nuget locals all --clear
    dotnet restore

### 6. **Full Example**

Here’s the full, corrected `MailStore.cs` with the correct namespaces:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer;
    using SmtpServer.Storage;  // Correct namespace for MessageStore
    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using MimeKit;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using FakeMail.Database;
    using FakeMail.Database.Models;
    using System.Buffers;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Threading;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    using System.IO;

    public class MailStore : MessageStore
    {
        private readonly DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> _options;

        public MailStore(DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> options)
        {
            _options = options;
        }

        // Overriding SaveAsync correctly
        public override async Task<SmtpResponse> SaveAsync(ISessionContext context, IMessageTransaction transaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte> buffer, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
        {
            var message = MimeMessage.Load(buffer.AsStream());

            using (var db = new FakeMailDbContext(_options))
            {
                var email = new EmailMessage
                {
                    Sender = transaction.From.AsAddress().ToString(),
                    Recipient = string.Join(", ", transaction.To.Select(t => t.AsAddress().ToString())),
                    Subject = message.Subject ?? "(no subject)",
                    Body = message.TextBody ?? message.HtmlBody ?? "",
                    ReceivedAt = DateTime.UtcNow
                };

                db.Emails.Add(email);
                await db.SaveChangesAsync(cancellationToken);  // Async save to the database

                Console.WriteLine($"Mail received for {email.Recipient}: {email.Subject}");
            }

            return SmtpResponse.Ok;
        }
    }

### Summary Checklist:

  1.  **Install `SmtpServer` NuGet package** via `dotnet add package SmtpServer`.

  2.  **Add necessary namespaces** like `using SmtpServer;`, `using SmtpServer.Storage;`, etc.

  3.  **Ensure the correct version of the `SmtpServer` package** is referenced in your `.csproj` file.

  4.  **Rebuild your project** after making changes to ensure everything is properly linked.

Let me know if this resolves the issue or if you encounter any further errors!

##### You said:

using SmtpServer; using SmtpServer.ComponentModel; using SmtpServer.Storage;
using SmtpServer.Protocol; using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore; using
FakeMail.Database; using System; using SmtpServer.Protocol; using
SmtpServer.ComponentModel; class Program { static void Main(string[] args) {
// Initialize the DbContext options var dbOptions = new
DbContextOptionsBuilder<FakeMailDbContext>() .UseSqlite("Data
Source=fakemail.db") .Options; // Ensure database is created using (var db =
new FakeMailDbContext(dbOptions)) { db.Database.EnsureCreated(); } //
Initialize MailStore (synchronously) var mailStore = new MailStore(dbOptions);
// Create SMTP server options (synchronously) var options = new
SmtpServerOptionsBuilder() .ServerName("localhost") .Port(2525) .Build(); //
Initialize the SMTP server var server = new SmtpServer.SmtpServer(options,
mailStore); // Start the SMTP server (Synchronously wait for it to start)
Console.WriteLine("SMTP server listening on port 2525..."); server.Start(); //
Keep the server running (infinite loop) Console.ReadLine(); } }

###### ChatGPT said:

Your code looks generally correct, but there are a few things to address in
order to ensure that it runs properly.

### Issues & Suggestions:

  1.  **`SmtpServer.Start` is async**: The `Start` method on `SmtpServer` is asynchronous (`StartAsync`). You are calling it synchronously, but it should be awaited in an asynchronous context.

  2.  **`MailStore` needs to implement the required `IMessageStore` methods**: Make sure the `MailStore` class correctly implements the `IMessageStore` interface, as expected by `SmtpServer`.

  3.  **The SMTP server should run asynchronously** : Since `StartAsync` is asynchronous, you should refactor your `Main` method to support asynchronous execution.

### Solution:

You can update your `Main` method to be asynchronous and use `async Task`
instead of `void`. This will allow you to `await` `server.StartAsync()`
properly.

### Updated Code:

Here’s the corrected version of your code with the necessary adjustments:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer;
    using SmtpServer.Storage;
    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using FakeMail.Database;
    using System;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;

    class Program
    {
        static async Task Main(string[] args)  // Main now asynchronous
        {
            // Initialize the DbContext options
            var dbOptions = new DbContextOptionsBuilder<FakeMailDbContext>()
                .UseSqlite("Data Source=fakemail.db")
                .Options;

            // Ensure database is created
            using (var db = new FakeMailDbContext(dbOptions))
            {
                db.Database.EnsureCreated();
            }

            // Initialize MailStore (synchronously)
            var mailStore = new MailStore(dbOptions);

            // Create SMTP server options (synchronously)
            var options = new SmtpServerOptionsBuilder()
                .ServerName("localhost")
                .Port(2525)
                .Build();

            // Initialize the SMTP server
            var server = new SmtpServer.SmtpServer(options, mailStore);

            // Start the SMTP server (await the async method)
            Console.WriteLine("SMTP server listening on port 2525...");
            await server.StartAsync(System.Threading.CancellationToken.None);  // Start the server asynchronously

            // Keep the server running (infinite loop)
            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }

### Key Changes:

  1.  **Asynchronous `Main` method**:  
The `Main` method is now asynchronous (`async Task Main`), which allows you to
`await` the `StartAsync` method on the server.

  2.  **Await `StartAsync`**:  
The `StartAsync` method must be awaited because it is asynchronous, meaning it
will run the server without blocking the main thread.

  3.  **Cancellation Token** :  
Since `StartAsync` requires a cancellation token, I passed
`CancellationToken.None` in this case, which is a default no-op token.

### Make sure `MailStore` is correctly implemented:

Ensure your `MailStore` class implements `MessageStore` and its `SaveAsync`
method correctly, as mentioned earlier. For completeness:

    csharp

    CopyEdit

    using SmtpServer;
    using SmtpServer.Storage;
    using SmtpServer.Protocol;
    using MimeKit;
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    using FakeMail.Database;
    using System.Buffers;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Threading;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    using System.IO;

    public class MailStore : MessageStore
    {
        private readonly DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> _options;

        public MailStore(DbContextOptions<FakeMailDbContext> options)
        {
            _options = options;
        }

        public override async Task<SmtpResponse> SaveAsync(ISessionContext context, IMessageTransaction transaction, ReadOnlySequence<byte> buffer, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
        {
            var message = MimeMessage.Load(buffer.AsStream());

            using (var db = new FakeMailDbContext(_options))
            {
                var email = new EmailMessage
                {
                    Sender = transaction.From.AsAddress().ToString(),
                    Recipient = string.Join(", ", transaction.To.Select(t => t.AsAddress().ToString())),
                    Subject = message.Subject ?? "(no subject)",
                    Body = message.TextBody ?? message.HtmlBody ?? "",
                    ReceivedAt = DateTime.UtcNow
                };

                db.Emails.Add(email);
                await db.SaveChangesAsync(cancellationToken);  // Async save to the database

                Console.WriteLine($"Mail received for {email.Recipient}: {email.Subject}");
            }

            return SmtpResponse.Ok;
        }
    }

### Additional Notes:

  *  **Exception Handling** : You might want to add exception handling around the `server.StartAsync()` method to handle potential errors gracefully.

  *  **Dependency Injection** : If you plan to use dependency injection (DI) for services, you can use `.ConfigureServices()` to configure services (like `MailStore`, database context, etc.) more elegantly. This is optional for small applications but highly recommended for larger, scalable applications.

Once you've made these adjustments, try running your application again. Let me
know if you face any issues!

Attach

Search

Reason

Voice

ChatGPT can make mistakes. Check important info.

?